We've called this section, Audit Management.
But I should clarify that we're really talking about
the process of being assessed in some way.
There are historical connotations of the words audit and assessment.
Audit, is really meant as an evaluation of
whether processes and procedures are operating as expected.
Assessment, really means an evaluation of whether
processes and procedures align with industry standards.
But those two terms are often used interchangeably.
There are other words like, examination or attestation,
they are also used when describing the audit or assessment of an organization.
Although I will note,
that attestation generally continues to carry the connotation,
that it's the end product of an audit.
Meaning that I'm assessing your organization,
and then attesting that your process is aligned with that assessment.
But for practical purposes in this section,
when I refer to audit management,
I again mean the collective process of being assessed in some way.
The collective audits can originate in a number of ways,
but in general, they are linked to compliance.
Here is why, formal compliance or certification of compliance with the standard,
may require that an independent assessment and
attestation that you comply with some minimum amount of control objectives.
Or you may choose to perform
a self-assessment to ensure that you're compliant with the standard even if
it's not required for compliance certification
or to test readiness for an upcoming compliance assessment.
Customers may be allowed contractually to perform audits against your environment.
Finally, organizations may actually choose to have
an external assessment performed after a security incident occurs.
As we noted before,
compliance professionals spend a good deal of time managing these types of assessments.
I mentioned that certain audits may be required to prove
compliance or certify our organization against the standard.
Here are a couple of examples of when an audit might be required.
If your organization processes credit cards and
maintains a PCI DSS compliance certification.
Certification requires assessment, by
what's called a qualified security assessor, or QSA.
A SOC 2, that certification requires assessment by an AICPA,
certified public accounting firm.
Also, customers may be allowed contractually
to assess your organization against a particular standard,
or require an independent assessment against some standard.
Or some standards like high trust,
which is geared toward the healthcare industry,
they allow you to perform your own self-assessment prior to certification.
We've already talked about some audits being required,
meaning that if you don't have the assessment performed,
you'll lose certification or fall out of compliance.
So it's important to manage the audit process for that reason,
to make sure you're having audits performed within the required time frames.
But even if you're managing your audit schedule,
you still have to actively manage the audits.
That means liaising between the auditor and
the organization to ensure questions are answered timely and accurately.
In the worst case scenario,
poorly managed audit could lead to loss of certification.
In the best-case scenario,
poorly managed audit can lead to an organization scrambling to fix problems,
and being consumed by fixing audit findings for a full year.
Audits are designed to measure compliance with standards or best practices,
and uncover risk and control failure so that it can be remediated.
The truth is, audits work.
But poorly managed audits can make it appear that an organization isn't in compliance,
is poorly managed, or lacks oversight sufficient for successful security organization.
I've seen assessments before,
where inexperienced GRC professionals provided inaccurate and incomplete information.
Now based on that poor quality information,
the assessors found that the organization was nowhere near compliant.
What they did find,
is that the organization needed to address hundreds of findings,
and the organizations spent months with more experienced GRC personnel,
trying to track down the correct information and then
remediate findings that never truly existed.
Hundreds of findings, translates to at least hundreds of hours of human capital.
The GRC personnel have to review the findings,
they have to ask stakeholders to provide information,
review that information, and then finally,
provide those results in a digestible format back to the assessor.
In the post incident audit,
the pitfalls can be even greater.
Typically, that's because you're now opening
your organization to an independent assessor without much constraint.
In a normal audit,
you will likely already have an ideas to what's going to be assessed,
and you're going to provide the necessary information for that.
But assessors don't tend to pull on threats.
In a post incident assessment,
assessors will pull on every threat.
The reason for that, is that your organization, during an incident,
it didn't experience a single failure,
it experienced multiple failures.
Let's think about the Equifax breach for a moment.
It's reported that bad actors used
a widespread web vulnerability to steal more than 140 million records.
But a patch was released for that web vulnerability in March of 2017.
Equifax failed to pass in a timely manner.
That's one failure.
Then bad actors exploited their systems in May,
but it wasn't noticed. That's another failure.
It wasn't noticed in June,
when the bad actors discovered a stockpile of personal information,
10 weeks later, the breach was finally detected.
How many failures must have occurred between May and July?
That's why these audits don't just focus on compliance with a single standard,
but they focus on really exposing control and process failure.
What's more, is organizational management
will be heavily involved in these types of assessments.
I want to bring this back to compliance,
and demonstrate why audit is necessary for just about every company today.
We said that some compliance initiatives require
independent assessment to certify an organization.
Others don't, but it's still a good idea to audit to get certain standards.
Here's the reason why it's so important.
Certifying or self-certifying against a certain standard,
gives you the ability to demonstrate to customers,
that your organization take security seriously.
Remember, we've already talked about how security is part of that trust assessment,
that perspective customers use to evaluate you as a vendor.
The last thing you want,
is for customers who have a contractual right to perform a security assessment,
to find threats or vulnerabilities that you're not aware of.
That can create the risk of customer loss,
or having to deal with endless remediation efforts,
just to satisfy that one customer.